docs: update README.md (#25)
dhis2/multi-calendar-dates: README.md

    calendarWeekDays: {
        zdt: Temporal.ZonedDateTime
        label: string | number
        calendarDate: string
        onClick: () => void
        isSelected: boolean | undefined
        isToday: boolean
        isInCurrentMonth: boolean
    }[][]
}
```

# Periods and Dates helpers

The library also provides helper methods to work with periods and dates in multiple calendars. This allows doing date arithmetic, comparisons in a standard timezone-safe way. It currently relies on the Temporal API.

> The library is built on top of Temporal API, but this is an implementation detail, and one of the goals of the library is to hide that detail to allow replacing Temporal with a different implementation in the future, i.e. a Kotlin multi-platform implementation to achieve consistency between web, android and backend.

## generateFixedPeriods

- `generateFixedPeriods` returns the periods of a specific type in a specific year. This is used, for example in [Data Visualiser](https://github.com/dhis2/data-visualizer-app/pull/2233), to display the list of periods of different types (i.e. monthly, weekly, yearly) in a specific year, according to the user's calendar and locale.

> The method takes an `options` object of type `GeneratedPeriodParams` and returns an `Array<FixedPeriod>`.

Reviewer: I like how you add the types in the doc here -- can you add one for `FixedPeriod`? 😊 (Maybe you omitted it because you thought it was too obvious hah)

Reviewer: Ah yeah thanks for pointing that out, I guess I lost track between the description and the type 😅 

If other people are goldfish like me, then it might help to move it closer if possible 😅

```ts
type GeneratedPeriodParams = {
    year: number
    periodType: PeriodIdentifier
    calendar: SupportedCalendar
    locale?: string
    startingDay?: number /** 1 is Monday */
    yearsCount?: number
}
```
- For convenience, `locale` can be passed in the Java-like style (i.e. `ar_SD` rather than `ar-SD`) and it will be converted to the JS-style.

- These ar the supported periodTypes:

```
const periodIdentifiers = [
    'DAILY',
    'WEEKLY',
    'WEEKLYWED',
    'WEEKLYTHU',
    'WEEKLYSAT',
    'WEEKLYSUN',
    'BIWEEKLY',
    'MONTHLY',
    'BIMONTHLY',
    'QUARTERLY',
    'QUARTERLYNOV', // used in Ethiopia
    'SIXMONTHLY',
    'SIXMONTHLYAPR',
    'SIXMONTHLYNOV', // used in Ethiopia
    'YEARLY',
    'FYNOV',
    'FYOCT',
    'FYJUL',
    'FYAPR',
] as const
```

> Although, the library internally is flexible, and can accept, for example, quarterly periods starting any month (i.e. `QUARTERNLYMAY`), support for such periods might not be available in the Backend so should be used carefully. The flexibility, though, means that a new period could be added to the backend and used without changes in the frontend.

Reviewer 2: Typo in `QUARTERNLYMAY`?

> Although, the library internally is flexible, and can accept, for example, quarterly periods starting any month (i.e. `QUARTERNLYMAY`), support for such periods might not be available in the Backend so should be used carefully. The flexibility, though, means that a new period could be added to the backend and used without changes in the frontend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although the library internally is flexible and can accept, for example, quarterly periods starting any month (i.e. `QUARTERLYMAY`), support for such periods might not be available in the backend, so they should be used carefully. The flexibility, though, means that a new period could be added to the backend and used without changes in the frontend.
```

The result value is of type `FixedPeriod`:

```ts
type FixedPeriod = {
    id: string
    iso?: string
    name: string
    startDate: string
    endDate: string
}
```

- `id` and `iso` are the same right now, and return a period identifier, i.e. `2015Q1` (quarter one of the year 2015) or `2015SunW1` (the first week - starting Sunday - of the year 2015). The full list of values are documented in [periodValues](https://github.com/dhis2/multi-calendar-dates/blob/main/features/fixed-periods.ethiopic.feature) in the feature files.

- `startDate` and `endDate` are the start and end dates of the specific period. This is provided for convenience, but the backend currently only makes use of the ID to work out what each period means.

- `name` is the human readable name of the period, according to what we dispaly in DHIS2 Data Visualizer, i.e. `Week 1 - 2014-13-03 - 2015-01-04` for a weekly period or `2015` for a yearly period. 

## getNowInCalendar

> - `getNowInCalendar` returns a ZonedDateTime in the calendar for today's date. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`getNowInCalendar` returns a [`ZonedDateTime`](https://tc39.es/proposal-temporal/docs/zoneddatetime.html) in the calendar for today's date. 
```

Instead of the link, you could also write the `ZonedDateTime` type here inline like you did for some others 🙂 (also, does this function take no arguments?)

> ToDo: we should also return the date stringified into `yyyy-MM-dd` since this is the most common usecase and it would help clients not to have to do the conversion manually.

## Upcoming methods

There are new methods that will be added soon (in the alpha release right now), such as `getFixedPeriodByDate` (which, given a date in a calendar, it returns what fixed period the date falls in)  and `getAdjacentFixedPeriods` (that facilitates being able to navigate to next and previous periods).

> > These new methods will be documented when merged into main branch, but this gives an idea about the general approach we want to follow with th library; if you encounter a use case that you think it should be included in the library then please get in touch to discuss whether it should live there, or at the consumer level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> These new methods will be documented when merged into main branch, but this gives an idea about the general approach we want to follow with the library; if you encounter a use case that you think it should be included in the library then please get in touch to discuss whether it should live there, or at the consumer level.
```

> # Special cases and considerations with Periods logic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Special cases and considerations with periods logic
```

> There are some special DHIS-2 specific cases when doing period calcualtions that we handle. The specs for these are documented in the tests and cucumber feature files. Some of these are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some special DHIS-2 specific cases when doing period calculations that we handle. The specs for these are documented in the tests and cucumber feature files. Some of these are:
```

> - Dealing with the 13th month in the Ethiopian calendar: the Ethiopic calendar has 13 months: 12 months of 30 days, then the 13th month has 5 or 6 days depending on whether it's a leap year or not. When generating periods for bi-weekly or less (bi-weekly, weekly, daily) then the 13th month is displayed. But when we are generating periods for Monthly or larger, we do not display the 13th month. The backend then makes the decision about where to include any data for the 13th month, so when doing monthly analytics, the 13th month will be lumped with the following month's data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Dealing with the 13th month in the Ethiopian calendar: the Ethiopic calendar has 13 months: 12 months of 30 days, then the 13th month has 5 or 6 days depending on whether it's a leap year or not. When generating periods for bi-weekly or less (bi-weekly, weekly, daily) then the 13th month is displayed. But when we are generating periods for monthly or larger, we do not display the 13th month. The backend then makes the decision about where to include any data for the 13th month, so when doing monthly analytics, the 13th month will be lumped with the following month's data.
```

You could also format these like `MONTHLY` if you like

> - The period IDs are dictated by the Backend, and they use the gregorian month names, for example, `QuarterlyNov` or `QuarterlyApr`. In the frontend, in a non-Gregorian calendar, `Nov` will be "translated" into the 11th month of the current calendar system (Hamle in Ethiopic). Ideally, we will have Period IDs that are calendar-agnostic in the future, but this works for now as a solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The period IDs are dictated by the backend, and they use the Gregorian month names, for example, `QuarterlyNov` or `QuarterlyApr`. In the frontend, in a non-Gregorian calendar, `Nov` will be "translated" into the 11th month of the current calendar system (Hamle in Ethiopic). Ideally, we will have period IDs that are calendar-agnostic in the future, but this works for now as a solution.
```

(just casing consistency)

> - From Frontend perspective, we always send a date in the calendar system. It is formatted in an iso-like format (`yyyy-MM-dd`). It is "iso-like", because the date is actually in the calendar system rather than the gregorian iso8601 calendar. So when a system set to Ethiopic, sends `2015-01-01` to the Backend, it means the year 2015 in Ethiopic (which is 2022 in Gregorian). This is what the Backend expects, and if there is a need for a conversion, then it happens in the backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- From the frontend perspective, we always send a date in the calendar system. It is formatted in an ISO-like format (`yyyy-MM-dd`). It is "ISO-like", because the date is actually in the calendar system rather than the Gregorian ISO8601 calendar. So when a system set to Ethiopic, sends `2015-01-01` to the backend, it means the year 2015 in Ethiopic (which is 2022 in Gregorian). This is what the backend expects, and if there is a need for a conversion, then it happens in the backend.
```

  - Given we have the Temporal object in the frontend, we have the ability to send the date converted into Gregorian, but that's what the backend expects right now.

> - Nepali is implemented as a custom calendar (https://github.com/dhis2/multi-calendar-dates/blob/multi-calendar-docs/src/custom-calendars/nepaliCalendar.ts). Nepali is luni-solar calendar which means that the length of months can vary from year to year. The way Temporal does date arithmetic, is that it converts the day to gregorian, performs the arithmetic, then converts it back to the calendar. This leads to weird situations where you do `nepaliDate.add({month: 1})` for example, but the result is still in the current month (since the month has 30 days in Gregorian, but 32 in Nepali for example). To get around that, we [set the day to the 14th](https://github.com/dhis2/multi-calendar-dates/blob/73057360c4720d995370779b02fe6e3784b326ab/src/period-calculation/getYearlyPeriods.ts#L23) before doing arithmetic (in the context of period generation) and this leads to results that make sense in the context of DHIS2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Nepali is implemented as a custom calendar: see [nepaliCalendar.ts](https://github.com/dhis2/multi-calendar-dates/blob/multi-calendar-docs/src/custom-calendars/nepaliCalendar.ts). Nepali is luni-solar calendar which means that the length of months can vary from year to year. The way Temporal does date arithmetic, is that it converts the day to gregorian, performs the arithmetic, then converts it back to the calendar. This leads to weird situations where you do `nepaliDate.add({month: 1})` for example, but the result is still in the current month (since the month has 30 days in Gregorian, but 32 in Nepali for example). To get around that, we [set the day to the 14th](https://github.com/dhis2/multi-calendar-dates/blob/73057360c4720d995370779b02fe6e3784b326ab/src/period-calculation/getYearlyPeriods.ts#L23) before doing arithmetic (in the context of period generation) and this leads to results that make sense in the context of DHIS2.
```
Just a suggestion for a shorter link

- Nepali is also not supported as a locale in major browsers. So we rely on localising it with a hardcoded map, meaning we don't have the same flexibility showing the day or month names as short or long for example with `.toLocaleString`. That means that the consumer can only use one of `ne-NP` or `en-NP` (nepali months and days transliterated into English) as a locale with the Nepali calendar, and they can't use browser localisations (so they can't display Nepali month names in French for example, but they would be able to do so with Ehtiopic or Islamic calendars).
 
- In Ethiopic calendar, when consuming a date, use `.eraYear` rather than `.year` to get the year part of a date. There is an ongoing discussion on Temporal to decide which era of the Ethiopic calendar should be the default, but it's likely to be browser-dependent at the end, so it's safer to use `eraYear` as this is what users in Ethiopia would expect to see. We looked at abstracting this difference away in the library, but there was no easy solution for it.

> - The library also abstracts some DHIS2-specific inconsistencies with the backend to make it easier for consumers of the library. For example, it has a map to convert from the calendar IDs used in DHIS2 to the ones expected by the library: https://github.com/dhis2/multi-calendar-dates/blob/multi-calendar-docs/src/constants/dhis2CalendarsMap.ts. This maps "ethiopian" (used in DHIS2) to "ethiopic" which is the standard ID used in JavaScript (in [Unicode CLDR](https://cldr.unicode.org/)). It also maps the Java locale names with an underscore to ones with a dash, to make them easier to use in a JavaScript context (i.e from `ar_SD` to `ar-SD`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The library also abstracts some DHIS2-specific inconsistencies with the backend to make it easier for consumers of the library. For example, it has a map to convert from the calendar IDs used in DHIS2 to the ones expected by the library: [dhis2CalendarsMap.ts](https://github.com/dhis2/multi-calendar-dates/blob/multi-calendar-docs/src/constants/dhis2CalendarsMap.ts). This maps "ethiopian" (used in DHIS2) to "ethiopic" which is the standard ID used in JavaScript (in [Unicode CLDR](https://cldr.unicode.org/)). It also maps the Java locale names with an underscore to ones with a dash, to make them easier to use in a JavaScript context (i.e from `ar_SD` to `ar-SD`).
```

## generateFixedPeriods

`generateFixedPeriods` returns the periods of a specific type in a specific year. This is used, for example in [Data Visualizer](https://github.com/dhis2/data-visualizer-app/pull/2233), to display the list of periods of different types (i.e. monthly, weekly, yearly) in a specific year, according to the user's calendar and locale.

### Example

Calling `generateFixedPeriods({year: 2015, periodType: "FYNOV", calendar: "gregory"})` will return all the November financial year periods (FYNOV) from the year 2015 (defaults to 10 years):

```js
// example result when calling generateFixedPeriods({year: 2015, periodType: "FYNOV", calendar: "gregory"})
;[
    {
        id: '2015Nov',
        name: 'November 2015 - October 2016',
        startDate: '2015-11-01',
        endDate: '2016-10-31',
    },
    {
        id: '2014Nov',
        name: 'November 2014 - October 2015',
        startDate: '2014-11-01',
        endDate: '2015-10-31',
    },
    //....
    {
        id: '2006Nov',
        name: 'November 2006 - October 2007',
        startDate: '2006-11-01',
        endDate: '2007-10-31',
    },
]
```

### Types

> The method takes an `options` object of type `GeneratedPeriodParams` and returns an `Array<FixedPeriod>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method takes a single `options` parameter and returns an `Array<FixedPeriod>`.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### The `options` param

The `options` param is an object of type `GeneratedPeriodParams`:

```

```ts
type GeneratedPeriodParams = {
    year: number
    periodType: PeriodIdentifier
    calendar: SupportedCalendar
    locale?: string
    startingDay?: number /** 1 is Monday */
    yearsCount?: number
}
```

For convenience, `locale` can be passed in the Java-like style (i.e. `ar_SD` rather than `ar-SD`) and it will be converted to the JS-style. `yearsCount` is used when generating yearly periods to know how many years to generate (defaults to 10). `

`periodType` can be one of the period identifiers defined [here](https://github.com/dhis2/multi-calendar-dates/blob/multi-calendar-docs/src/period-calculation/fixed-periods.ts#L10). Although the library internally is flexible and can accept, for example, quarterly periods starting any month (i.e. `QUARTERLYMAY`), support for such periods might not be available in the backend, so they should be used carefully. The flexibility, though, means that a new period could be added to the backend and used without changes in the frontend.

> The result value is of type `FixedPeriod`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### The return value

The returned value is an array of `FixedPeriod`s:
```

```ts
type FixedPeriod = {
    id: string
    iso?: string
    name: string
    startDate: string
    endDate: string
}
```

-   `id` (and `iso`) are the same right now, and return a period identifier, i.e. `2015Q1` (quarter one of the year 2015) or `2015SunW1` (the first week - starting Sunday - of the year 2015). The full list of values are documented in [periodValues](https://github.com/dhis2/multi-calendar-dates/blob/main/features/fixed-periods.ethiopic.feature) in the feature files.

> please use `id` to identify the period. `iso` was added for backwards compatibility with existing implementations

-   `startDate` and `endDate` are the start and end dates of the specific period. This is provided for convenience, but the backend currently only makes use of the ID to work out what each period means.

-   `name` is the human readable name of the period, according to what we dispaly in DHIS2 Data Visualizer, i.e. `Week 1 - 2014-13-03 - 2015-01-04` for a weekly period or `2015` for a yearly period.

## getNowInCalendar

`getNowInCalendar` returns today's date in the specified calendrical system.

### Examples

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
```

// Assuming today's date is 13th October 2021
beforeEach(() => {
    // 13 October 2021 UTC
    jest.spyOn(Date, 'now').mockReturnValue(1634089600000)
})
it('should get today date in Gregorian', () => {
    const { day, month, year } = getNowInCalendar('gregory', 'UTC')
    expect({ day, month, year }).toEqual({ day: 13, month: 10, year: 2021 })
})
it('should get today date in Ethiopic', () => {
    const {
        day,
        month,
        eraYear: year,
    } = getNowInCalendar('ethiopic', 'UTC')
    expect({ day, month, year }).toEqual({
        day: 3,
        month: 2,
        year: 2014,
    })
})
```

### Types

> The method takes two arguments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method takes two positional arguments:
```

-   `calendarToUse` which can be one of the calendars specified [here](https://github.com/dhis2/multi-calendar-dates/blob/multi-calendar-docs/src/constants/calendars.ts) (defaults to `gregory` calendar if not specied.
-   `timeZone`: a string representing the time zone (defaults to `UTC`) of the user.

> and returns a [ZonedDateTime](https://tc39.es/proposal-temporal/docs/zoneddatetime.html) object, which can be destructured to `.year` or `.eraYear` (`eraYear` preferred to avoid an issue with Ethiopic calendar), `.month`, `.day` which returns the values in the specified calendar, or you can `.getISOFields()` to return the underlying iso8601 (gregory) date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and returns a [ZonedDateTime](https://tc39.es/proposal-temporal/docs/zoneddatetime.html#properties) object, which can be destructured to `.year` or `.eraYear` (`eraYear` preferred to avoid an issue with Ethiopic calendar), `.month`, `.day` which returns the values in the specified calendar, or you can `.getISOFields()` to return the underlying iso8601 (gregory) date.
```

I realized this section on the page might be more helpful for readers

> ToDo: we should also return the date stringified into `yyyy-MM-dd` since this is the most common usecase and it would help clients not to have to do the conversion manually.

## Upcoming methods

There are new methods that will be added soon (in the alpha release right now), such as `getFixedPeriodByDate` (which, given a date in a calendar, it returns what fixed period the date falls in) and `getAdjacentFixedPeriods` (that facilitates being able to navigate to next and previous periods).

> These new methods will be documented when merged into main branch, but this gives an idea about the general approach we want to follow with the library; if you encounter a use case that you think it should be included in the library then please get in touch to discuss whether it should live there, or at the consumer level.

# Special cases and considerations with periods logic

> There are some special DHIS-2 specific cases when doing period calculations that we handle. The specs for these are documented in the tests and cucumber feature files. Some of these are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some special DHIS2-specific cases when doing period calculations that we handle. The specs for these are documented in the tests and cucumber feature files. Some of these are:
```
